Title:
Thinking Outside the Cartridge - Modern Ideas Applied to Archaic Devices

Overview:
Ever wanted to make something that looks and sounds awesome with a gaming console you've played on your entire life? Ever wanted to build a proper, modern toolset to do so and experiment with functional programming at the same time? Then this talk is for you!

We'll take a look at two recent Super Nintendo demos, and, in particular, the ideas and methodologies applied when making them. First, we'll go over some of the details of the SNES' quirky hardware and the usual methods of making it tick. Building from there, we'll look at how most of this can be reduced to "simple" data processing, and how modern development techniques can be applied to make this simpler and more interesting.

All in all, this talk aims to show how applicable modern programming practices can be to unexpected problem domains, and how inspiring it can be to work with creative, out-of-the-box solutions. After all, a little ancient console dev never hurt anyone, right?

Objective:
To inspire and inform the audience about what's possible when modern programming tools and techniques are applied to arcane tasks with highly restrictive computational constraints.

Target audience:
Hardware hackers, gamer geeks, assembler addicts, pixel people :)

Content flags:
Inspirational, Creative Code, Hardcore code

5 things the audience will walk away with:
1. A new perspective on writing code low-level code for constricted hardware
2. A new perspective on the applicability of functional programming techniques to unexpected problem domains
3. Insight into finding creative solutions to difficult (if not downright amusing) problems
4. Some fun insight into the Super Nintendo's internals
5. Inspiration to try some low-level hacking in new ways!

Speaker bio:
Hailing from the wilderness of northern Idaho, Jake Taylor has always had a knack for dissecting things and finding creative solutions to problems. From a very early age he showed a deep interest in computers and electronics, and has been a dedicated software enthusiast and hacker for the better part of his young life. On the side, he also enjoys making electronic music and being a poster child for college dropouts everywhere.

Jake is currently located in Oslo, Norway, where he works at Fuse building the next generation of app development tools.

Image:
https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/4646373/seminar.jpg
